(mellow music)
All right, in this video we wanna talk
about The Reactive Manifesto.
So this was originally published in 2013,
and you can go over to www.reactivemanifesto.org
to read it in its complete form.
Some interesting authors there, you have Jonas Boner,
he's the Akka founder.
Akka is a pretty cool library focused on a lot
of big scale distributed type systems,
Dave Farley, Roland Kuhn, and Martin Thompson.
I wanna point out that the term reactive
is really getting overloaded in the IT community.
There's a lot of disinformation out there,
I guess you could say, a lot of confusion about
what is and what isn't reactive.
It's kind of becoming a real buzzword right now.
So there's several reactive paradigms out there
that we need to clarify.
So in this presentation, I'm referring to Reactive Systems
and this is a architecture and design pattern.
And you'll see like Cloud Native
and cloud-based applications, so that type of system,
like the large scale self-healing systems
like Google's Gmail is a great example
or amazon.com, obviously a reactive system.
They do not go down on Black Friday sales events.
Then reactive programming is much more granular.
It's focusing on event based.
It's asynchronous non-blocking programming techniques
focused on handling an event, and that event would probably
be within a reactive system.
So a reactive system is a much more broader concept.
We're looking at how you're laying out your servers
and your microservices, whether or not
you're using messaging or a big monolithic application,
so it's more at an architectural level
while reactive programming is the technique
that you're using to code in.
Now Functional Reactive Programming is also a buzzword.
You're hearing a lot of functional buzz right now
especially in the Java community on the heels of Java 8.
One of the founders of the reactive manifesto
believes that functional reactive programming
is definitely misused right now by a lot of libraries
that are claiming to be functional reactive programming
libraries, when in fact they're more reactive programming.
I'm not gonna get into the nuts and bolts of that.
I just want to make you aware that there is disparity
in the community about what is functional
reactive programming and reactive programming.
So some people believe if go with a functional model
and doing reactive, you're now doing FRP,
but not necessarily that's the case.
So let's take a look at the reactive manifesto.
This is gonna be looking at four areas,
and this is an image adopted right off their website,
Responsive, Resilient, Message Driven, and Elastic.
So let's take a little closer look
to what each one of those means.
Responsive means that the system
is gonna respond in a timely manner.
And responsiveness is the cornerstone
of usability and utility.
I'm not sure if everybody understands
what cornerstone means.
A lot of times when you're building an old architectural
style is you'd set down a cornerstone which became the stone
that you built upon the entire building.
That's what that connotation means in a broader sense,
so that might get lost in other communities
outside the US and Europe.
Responsiveness also means that problems
may be detected quickly and dealt with effectively.
This means that the system is going
to effectively be self-healing.
All responsive systems also provide rapid
and consistent response times.
And this consistent behavior simplifies error handling
and builds end user confidence,
and encourages further interaction.
Think about if you're using Facebook and you're on Facebook.
Usually Facebook works pretty consistent for me
but there's times when it's slow and I get frustrated
with that and it's usually when I'm on my mobile
and have a bad data connection, so having a consistent
response is important for your end users.
Resilient, so a system stays responsive
in the face of failure.
Resilience is achieved by replication, containment,
isolation, and delegation.
And then failures are contained within a component.
You don't want a single part of the system failing
and taking down the whole system.
So recovery is delegated to another, and that means
there's a redundancy in the system,
so there's no single point of failure in the system.
High-availability is ensured by replication where necessary.
So this would be like if you're running a RabbitMQ server
you'd be running in a cluster, so one of those
in the cluster could go down.
Or if you have microservices you're gonna have be
load balance against multiple nodes of that microservice.
And then Elastic, so the system
stays responsive under varying workload.
Reactive systems can react to changes to the input rate
by increasing or decreasing resources
allocated to those service inputs.
And they achieve elasticity on a cost effective platform,
so using commodity hardware and software.
amazon.com is a great example of this
because they do run a lot of nodes behind amazon.com
but both Amazon and Google are well known
for using commodity hardware so just
the cheapest servers that they can find.
And they structure their system so that
that cheap little server can go down
and it doesn't matter
because they have other things to back it up.
And then also like Google, is the founder of Kubernetes
and within Kubernetes you can look at a workload
and say okay well, I want three nodes of this running
but if it starts getting busy, if the CPU goes above X,
bring on additional nodes to handle the load.
So it will automatically scale in response to the load.
And when that load goes away then
that will scale down as well,
so having this dynamic scaling is important.
And while it's doing this, the system will stay responsive.
For the end user, the user experience is the same
depending on if there is 5 users, 5,000, 50,000,
the experience for each user is gonna be the same in this.
Now is probably one of the more important parts for us
as far as being Java developers,
reactive systems are message driven.
They rely on asynchronous message passing to establish
a boundary between components.
So this is gonna ensure loose coupling, isolation,
and location transparency.
Message passing also enables load management,
elasticity, and flow control.
This makes it important because now you have
a distributed system and you're passing messages between it.
So if you're sending a message and just for clarity
a message can be going over like RabbitMQ, JMS Broker,
such as ActiveMQ, it can even be a web service call
because you are posting the contents of a message
to a rest end point. So the message passing
can take a number of different forms but the concept
remains the same is that you're passing some chunk
of data whether it's JSON, XML, serialized object,
you're passing that message across some boundary
to another system that's gonna act on it.
And location transparent messaging means that you're not
dependent on Server A talking to Server B.
You're going from a message group cluster
of microservices A to a cluster of microservices B,
that you're not concerned about the specific server.
So this is an important architecture shift.
And then the non-blocking communication allows recipients
to consume only resources while active
and this is also important.
So if you have say a message queue you can have a consumer
come up, you could have one consumer, five consumers,
so you can dynamically take that and the consumers
that are not active aren't gonna be adding it
to the overall system load.
Now I stole this diagram right from the JHipster guys
because I think it's really good.
When we hear the term Cloud Native, the Spring guys
definitely like to talk about Cloud Native,
and this is a good overview of what that involves.
Netflix has been a huge contributor to the components
within Spring Cloud so there's a lot of cool stuff there.
And what we have as a distributed architecture
is probably gonna be deployed in Docker containers.
There's a number of different ways
of managing those containers.
Kubernetes is one that I mentioned, Docker Swarm is another.
There's Patria, I think it's Mesos,
so there's a number of different ways of managing this.
Then there's different ways of using like Zuul and Eureka,
and you can just pull up these nodes
and you could manually do it with these.
So now you have a truly distributed application here.
If you're not familiar with the Spring microservices
what's gonna happen here is if I deploy a microservice,
it's gonna wake up, go out to what you see
on the diagram is the JHipster registry,
get its configuration from Spring Cloud config,
and then register itself with the Eureka server.
So it says, okay I'm this microservice.
Here I am, I'm on this IP address and node.
Now the Zuul proxy is also in communication
with the Eureka server, a request comes in
through the gateway and it knows to route
to that node of that microservice.
Now that microservice can go down,
the box that it's running on can get terminated,
and you could bring up another microservice on another box,
and the process would go through the same.
Where now it's registered again with the Eureka server,
it gets its configuration, so obviously you're gonna
be running multiple nodes of those microservices
so now any time those microservices can fail,
a node could fail, and the system is now self-healing
because now you have that redundancy there.
And it's also very scalable this way.
So as different services become hot spots,
you can spool up additional nodes.
And what's important in a distributed architecture
like this is that is elastic.
And you see the Logstash and Kibana,
this is quite a bit different from having a big
monolithic application where you have one spot
to go look at the logs on, now you could have dozens
if not hundreds of nodes out there, each collecting logs.
That's why you use something like Kibana and Logstash.
So this is a distributed architecture.
You can see that what I have here is much more broad
in terms of the entire system architecture.
And the purpose is, of course, is to look more granular
at Spring 5 and know what's going on inside
of Spring framework 5.
Now reactive programming is very important
and is a useful implementation technique.
So now we're going from the overall system architecture
with reactive systems down to reactive programming
which is like the individual nodes in a microservice.
One is broad and one is very granular.
Reactive programming focuses on non-blocking,
asynchronous execution, and this is a very important
characteristic of overall reactive systems.
But at the end of the day, reactive programming
is just one tool in building reactive systems.
So I think as a goal we all wanna have very fast,
very reliable systems, so it's important to understand
the distinction here.
So one is an overall architecture but we're gonna be
diving into reactive programming, which is
an implementation technique of a very granular service.